# Evacuation Drill Participation App

This app was created with [Google's Flutter application framework](https://flutter.dev/).

Our Evacuation Drill Participation App was designed to gather data from users who participate in drill events hosted by Dr. Haizhong Wang and his research team at Oregon State University. These drills are performed to understand the level of tsunami evacuation preparedness in coastal communities, and how best to serve these communities in the event of a such a disaster.

## Telemetry
Location Tracking is performed via system calls once per second and stored using SQLite. Any data points within 1 m of the previous point are deemed redundant.
When location tracking ends the resultant data is parsed into GPX format and saved locally as a .gpx file.
When an upload is initiated the DrillResults object is first parsed to a JSON object and written to a .json file. All result files are then encrypted using the Drill Coordinator’s public key. Finally, the encrypted files are uploaded to cloud file storage.
To access results, Drill Coordinators use the Researcher Desktop Console which downloads, decrypts, and collates the results as .gpx files and a .csv table.

## Data Structures
+ The primary data structures created for the project are DrillDetails (which specifies the parameters of a given drill) and DrillResults (which contains the survey, trajectory, and meta datasets generated by a participant). 
+ Both of these data structures envelop a list of Task specific data structures: TaskDetails and TaskResult.
+ The current types of Tasks include: Take Survey, Wait For Start, Perform Drill, Allow Location Permissions, Travel To Next Location, and Upload Results. 
+ New Task types can be added in future iterations by extending the TaskDetails and TaskResult model classes, and by creating the required Flutter Widget tree and Functions to compose a TaskDisplay.

## Continued Development
Please see [Suggested Improvements](SUGGESTED_IMPROVEMENTS.md) for a discussion of feature additions which the original development team foresees as critical and/or beneficial.
